but in general when i look at my comment
account right now we clean out all the
spam we're at 106 000 comments
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
uh neil what's the biggest impact on seo
from all the data we've seen and tested
we believe it's brands now
here's what i mean by that so to go back
eric schmidt the ex-ceo of google one
said brands are the solution they're not
the problem right it's how you start out
the good companies from the cesspool
and
in a book i'm paraphrasing his quote but
you guys get the point he's pretty much
saying brands are important
and brands are a key factor in google's
rankings
so
i once
over time i noticed a trend
more and more people were typing in my
domain name into google so my domain
name is neilpatel.com for one of my
sites where people were typing in my
name neil patel seo neil patel tools
neil patel uber suggest neil patel
content marketing etc variations of my
name
and what we found is
if we didn't build links or anything but
our brand spiked from pr or whatnot and
it spiked for a month or two all of our
rankings skyrocketed and even when the
pr went down and the brand queries went
down our rankings
maintained or close to maintained to
their peaks
so we found that google loves brands
like we've seen and tested sites in
different regions globally
and even if you build links you write
the right content you're super thorough
we found that if you don't have brand
queries you don't rank as high but if
you have a ton of brand queries and you
barely have links or anything like that
your rankings skyrocket
absolutely this is there's an algorithm
change back in 2009
that was a big brand update i believe
um and since then bigger brands
have been getting a benefit now bigger
brands it doesn't necessarily mean you
have to be a bigger company right
yeah you don't have to be a nike or
wikipedia you just have to be a big
brand for the keywords you're trying to
rank for
um and you don't have to be the biggest
friend you just have to be somewhat of a
brand
like my brand queries suck compared to
nike i get roughly a hundred thousand
visitors a month from people googling
neil patel even though my domain name is
neilpatel.com
but yeah i still rank well and so does
nike but nike probably gets a hundred
thousand queries every single minute so
brand queries
big impact on seo you i mean you've told
me this for for years this is not a new
thing
so i i what's surprising is
why haven't more people done this right
yeah and you're doing a good job of it
you do youtube you're on social media
you blog you speak at conferences you
build a brand and you can do that
whether it's personal or whether it's
corporate and
just look at how much business you got
because of brand not only do you have
rankings and good traffic to your site
but it also helps generate business as
well and you can do that for a corporate
brand and again a personal brand but
very few people spend time and energy
into it yeah it's i think that's one of
the things i've seen you over the last
probably 15 years or so continue to
invest in
and and now you have an roi from it but
i remember the first seven eight years
there was zero roi and you spent tens of
thousands of dollars a month on building
a brand and where others didn't but you
spent a lot of money on brand um for
those of folks who don't maybe don't
spend money or like maybe need a little
bit of con convincing i guess what's the
what's some ways what are some ways you
can build your brand up online
yeah so
i stick with the rule of seven when
someone sees your brand or hears about
it seven times and interacts with it
seven times they're much more likely to
become a loyal follower again whether
it's personal or corporate
so simple things that you can do this
one collect emails if you collect emails
anytime you update your content or have
something new like a youtube video you
can always blast it out
two you can do push notifications so
anytime someone comes to your site have
them subscribe anytime you have new
content or wanna push out a message
let them know
three leverage social media all of the
channels out there because i believe
that you're not going to find someone on
one channel or another but
you know
if you leverage all of them you'll get
something that's better than nothing
four engage with people so like like you
mentioned if someone leaves a comment on
your videos you'll take the time to
respond to them
i think that's huge a lot of companies
and people don't do that that does help
build a lot of brand loyalty
i would say the next one is interact
with people in person you do a great job
with that as well most people are like
yeah i'm gonna try to build a brand let
me stay away from people as far as
possible but there needs to be some sort
of touch component human component where
it's one-on-one or one-to-many but live
in person
yeah absolutely i think the the couple
things the comments
i think helps you build connections with
your readers i think you've probably
uh quick spot neal patel has more
comments than probably any other digital
marketing site com every other digital
marketing site combined right like
somehow you've engaged you have a lot of
comments i've tried to repeat that on my
site and i can tell you it doesn't it
doesn't happen overnight yeah you have
to be consistent it happens very slowly
and the later you start like when you
started back in like i would say like
0.506
people were more engaging at that point
and they continue to engage with your
site you start later they don't engage
as much
yeah they don't gaze as much it's harder
even now i notice we get less comments
than we used to
but in general when i look at my comment
account right now we clean out all the
spam we're at 106 000 comments holy crap
that's a lot of comments right
what's the average per blog post like 10
to 20.
uh
i think it's in the well i'll tell you
right now so 106
and i have
uh let's see 106 447 divided by 5420
19.6 comments per blog post wow nice
that's awesome um i have an average of
one comment per blog post
you gotta start somewhere right that's
right yeah i just know this because i
have 419 comments and 419 posts so
anyways cool so commenting is great i
think the next thing is relationships
networking builds that relationship and
a relationship is like a deeper impact
on a brand right like it's one of the
things i remember you telling me a long
time ago is like i want people to talk
about me when i'm not in the room and
you optimize for that
uh i don't know what the heck you're
doing if there's a good or bad thing
right just you just want to be top of
mind because then when someone's obey
you hopefully they'll think about you
over anyone else but yeah i love the
fact that you're building brand multiple
ways uh you do a lot of youtube you do
instagram you do you've been blogging
for years in multiple places
um what's your favorite way to build a
brand or building brand query
specifically
release free tools i found that that
beats everything hell yeah that's that
is a great thing like look at uber
suggests dude that thing just crushes it
from a search volume yeah we get 340 000
monthly visitors or technically 340 000
visits every 28 days from people
googling uber wow
we have this company called voila
norbert uh it's an email finding tool uh
voila norbert it's not a common brand
right it's like it's a french french
folks like you wouldn't think that like
people would search for that we get more
searches for the our brand name
than our top keywords have
yeah your logo is cool too
little the norbert the little butler guy
but yeah anyways but it shows free
product um or freemium but you can
freely use
how far that goes um and one of the
reasons when we acquired it it was just
like hey we could do nothing with this
and the brand value alone will continue
to grow as long as you make the product
better so it's like no marketing just by
improving the product
is marketing and i know you guys you
guys have done a lot of work on the uber
suggest side of things is that why you
put it under the neil patel umbrella to
get around here yeah awesome you have to
invest in it right
i'll tell you this
i had started investing in my brand 2013
like seriously investing in my personal
brand um so six solid years of effort uh
a solid decade after you and there's a
zero in terms of how many people or two
zeros probably versus the
the the volume and the traffic and
everything that regarding yours or my
personal brand and i'm sure there's a
lot of other stuff in between but
always
skyrocket though
as you wait
you know you do another three four five
years it starts growing at a much faster
pace right yeah it's a snowball effect
right over time yeah so don't start
later start now because channels would
change like the stuff that would work
today won't work in five years so start
now
you get that awesome thanks neil where
can people find you what where do you
want people to go neilpatel.com
awesome super simple
if you don't know how how to get to it
google his name so you could help him
with his brand query